# Celtics-Project

As a passionate Boston Celtics fan, I have always been curious about the factors that contribute to a team's success in basketball. The Celtics are ranked #1 in the Eastern Conference as of early 2023, and most nights, they play with exactly the type of outstanding performance Boston sports fans come to expect from them. However, there are other nights where it's like watching a completely different and disjointed team on the court. What factors impact a team's performance on the court from game to game? With the help of box score data sourced from NBA.com and machine learning algorithms, I am setting out to build a model that can identify the most important factors and use them to accurately predict the outcome of NBA games. 

The National Basketball Association (NBA) was founded in 1946, making it one of the oldest professional sports leagues in North America. Over the years, the league has grown in size and popularity, and today it features 30 teams from across the United States and Canada. My research ino the NBA as well as my observations from being a fan have revealed that factors such as home-court advantage, number of rest days, and previous team performance can have predictive power in determining the outcome of a game.

Some argue that the outcome of basketball is relatively easy to predict compared to other sports. The main argument is that basketball is a high-scoring sport, with teams scoring over 100 points per game on a regular basis. Thus, basketball is subject to less randomness than low-scoring sports like soccer or baseball, in which luck may play a larger role. Many NBA teams also feature star players who have a significant impact on the outcome of the game, which can make it easier to predict the winner based on the performance of those players. However, even the best teams and players have nights where they perform worse than expected, and factors that are harder to measure such as team chemistry and coaching strategy can play a significant role in determining the outcome of a game. At the end of the day, NBA players are humans subject to randomness in health, attitude, and performance game-to-game, which can make basketball outcomes tricky to predict.

## Data: 

For my analysis, I will be using data from NBA.com sourced through NBA_API. Because I am particularly interested in Celtics outcomes, I will be using data starting in 2014, which is when the core of the Celtics team that exists today began to form. Today's starters on the Celtics are Jayson Tatum, Jaylen Brown, Marcus Smart, Al Horford, and Rob Williams, who were all drafted or traded to the team between 2014 and 2018. NBA teams in general do not stay constant for long, with churning at an all-time high and contract lengths steadily decreasing, meaning that evaluating NBA team performance from decades ago should have little predictive power in the most recent seasons. 

